tinker-actions/src/image2disk/README.md, before:

# IMAGE2DISK

slug: image2disk
name: image2disk
tags: disk
maintainers: Dan Finneran <daniel.finneran@gmail.com>
description: "This action will stream a remote disk image (raw) to a block device, and
is mainly used to write cloud images to a disk. It is recommended to use the `qemu-img`
tool to convert disk images into raw, it is also possible to compress the raw images
with tar+gzip to prevent wasted disk space"
version: latest

This Action will stream a remote disk image (raw) to a block device, and
is mainly used to write cloud images to a disk. It is recommended to use the `qemu-img`
tool to convert disk images into raw, it is also possible to compress the raw images
with tar+gzip to prevent wasted disk space.

| env var | data type | default value | required | description |
|---------|-----------|---------------|----------|-------------|
| IMG_URL | string | "" | yes | URL of the image to be streamed |
| DEST_DISK | string | "" | yes | Block device to which to write the image |
| COMPRESSED | bool | false | no | Decompress the image before writing it to the disk |
| RETRY_ENABLED | bool | true | no | Retry the Action, using exponential backoff, for the duration specified in `RETRY_DURATION_MINUTES` before failing |
| RETRY_DURATION_MINUTES | int | 10 | no | Duration for which the Action will retry before failing |
| PROGRESS_INTERVAL_SECONDS | int | 3 | no | Interval at which the progress of the image transfer will be logged |
| TEXT_LOGGING | bool | false | no | Output from the Action will be logged in a more human friendly text format, JSON format is used by default |

The below example will stream a raw ubuntu cloud image (converted by qemu-img) and write
it to the block storage disk `/dev/sda`. The raw image is uncompressed in this example.

```yaml
actions:
    - name: "stream ubuntu"
      image: amr-registry.caas.intel.com/one-intel-edge/edgenode/image2disk:latest
      timeout: 90
      environment:
          IMG_URL: http://192.168.1.2/ubuntu.raw
          DEST_DISK: /dev/sda
          COMPRESSED: false
```

The below example will stream a compressed raw ubuntu cloud image (converted by qemu-img)
and then compressed with gzip to reduce local space. This also use retry.

```sh
qemu-img convert ubuntu.img ubuntu.raw
gzip ubuntu.raw
```

```yaml
actions:
    - name: "stream ubuntu"
      image: amr-registry.caas.intel.com/one-intel-edge/edgenode/image2disk:latest
      timeout: 90
      environment:
          IMG_URL: http://192.168.1.2/ubuntu.tar.gz
          DEST_DISK: /dev/sda
          COMPRESSED: true
          RETRY_ENABLED: true
```

## Compression format supported

- bzip2 (`.bzip2`)
- gzip (`.gz`)
- xz (`.xz`)
- xs (`.xs`)

Commit message:

Tinker Action Open Source readiness (#30)
* init commit

* try common.mk

* bump version

* add dummy

* fix include

* use markdownlint.yml

* update md

* update docker build with common go

* copy common_go.mk

* check if files are present before running lint

* copy common_go.mk

* synfix tax error

* fix indent

* fix syntax

* hadolint change

* fix TBD

* check with network host

* fix readme lint

* fix TBD

* update README

* bump version

* add aws create repo

* removed commented items

* add missing "

* rename to tiber microvisor

* add open source acknowledgement

* add to reuse

* add upstream license and notice

* remove innersource label

* tidy securebootflag

* add infra to DOCKER_REPOSITORY

---------

Co-authored-by: Daniele Moro <daniele.moro@intel.com>

tinker-actions/src/image2disk/README.md, after:

# IMAGE2DISK

NOTICE: This file has been modified by Intel Corporation.
Original file can be found at [github.com/tinkerbell/actions](https://github.com/tinkerbell/actions).

slug: image2disk
name: image2disk
tags: disk
maintainers: Dan Finneran <daniel.finneran@gmail.com>
description: "This action will stream a remote disk image (raw) to a block device, and
is mainly used to write cloud images to a disk. It is recommended to use the `qemu-img`
tool to convert disk images into raw, it is also possible to compress the raw images
with tar+gzip to prevent wasted disk space"
version: latest

This Action will stream a remote disk image (raw) to a block device, and
is mainly used to write cloud images to a disk. It is recommended to use the `qemu-img`
tool to convert disk images into raw, it is also possible to compress the raw images
with tar+gzip to prevent wasted disk space.

| env var | data type | default value | required | description |
|---------|-----------|---------------|----------|-------------|
| IMG_URL | string | "" | yes | URL of the image to be streamed |
| DEST_DISK | string | "" | yes | Block device to which to write the image |
| COMPRESSED | bool | false | no | Decompress the image before writing it to the disk |
| RETRY_ENABLED | bool | true | no | Retry the Action, using exponential backoff, for the duration specified in `RETRY_DURATION_MINUTES` before failing |
| RETRY_DURATION_MINUTES | int | 10 | no | Duration for which the Action will retry before failing |
| PROGRESS_INTERVAL_SECONDS | int | 3 | no | Interval at which the progress of the image transfer will be logged |
| TEXT_LOGGING | bool | false | no | Output from the Action will be logged in a more human friendly text format, JSON format is used by default |

The below example will stream a raw ubuntu cloud image (converted by qemu-img) and write
it to the block storage disk `/dev/sda`. The raw image is uncompressed in this example.

```yaml
actions:
    - name: "stream ubuntu"
      image: amr-registry.caas.intel.com/one-intel-edge/edgenode/image2disk:latest
      timeout: 90
      environment:
          IMG_URL: http://192.168.1.2/ubuntu.raw
          DEST_DISK: /dev/sda
          COMPRESSED: false
```

The below example will stream a compressed raw ubuntu cloud image (converted by qemu-img)
and then compressed with gzip to reduce local space. This also use retry.

```sh
qemu-img convert ubuntu.img ubuntu.raw
gzip ubuntu.raw
```

```yaml
actions:
    - name: "stream ubuntu"
      image: amr-registry.caas.intel.com/one-intel-edge/edgenode/image2disk:latest
      timeout: 90
      environment:
          IMG_URL: http://192.168.1.2/ubuntu.tar.gz
          DEST_DISK: /dev/sda
          COMPRESSED: true
          RETRY_ENABLED: true
```

## Compression format supported

- bzip2 (`.bzip2`)
- gzip (`.gz`)
- xz (`.xz`)
- xs (`.xs`)
